README.md, before:

# Viral loads in symptomatic Covid-19 cases in England

In this work we analyse Ct values as a proxy for viral loads in symptomatic Pillar 2 cases in England. We describe trends as a function of the number of days since symptom onset, age, variant, number of vaccine doses, reinfection status, processing laboratory, and interactions between these variables. We further try to recover time trends using a model that incorporates all these factors, and investigate the role of epidemic phase bias.

The analysis is implemented in `R` with heavy use of the `mgcv` package.

# Citation

S. Funk, S. Abbott. _Viral loads in symptomatic Covid-19 cases in England _ (2022). https://github.com/epiforecasts/covid19_ct_pillar2

# Documentation

## File structure

Folder | Purpose
---|---
[`R`](R/) | R functions for preprocessing and analysing data.
[`scripts`](scripts/) | Scripts used to create results.

## Obtaining data

The data used in this repository is currently not publicly available.

## Dependencies

All dependencies can be installed using the following,

```{r}
remotes::install_dev_deps()
```

Commit message:

flesh out how to use the model

README.md, after:

# Viral loads in symptomatic Covid-19 cases in England

In this work we analyse Ct values as a proxy for viral loads in symptomatic Pillar 2 cases in England. We describe trends as a function of the number of days since symptom onset, age, variant, number of vaccine doses, reinfection status, processing laboratory, and interactions between these variables. We further try to recover time trends using a model that incorporates all these factors, and investigate the role of epidemic phase bias.

The analysis is implemented in `R` with heavy use of the `mgcv` package.

# Citation

S. Funk, S. Abbott. _Viral loads in symptomatic Covid-19 cases in England _ (2022). https://github.com/epiforecasts/covid19_ct_pillar2

# Documentation

## File structure

Folder | Purpose
---|---
[`R`](R/) | R functions for preprocessing and analysing data.
[`scripts`](scripts/) | Scripts used to create results.

## Obtaining data

The Pillar II surveillance data used in this repository is currently not publicly available. Apply to ? for access.

## Dependencies

All dependencies can be installed using the following,

```{r}
remotes::install_dev_deps()
```

## Reproducing our results

Once data access has been obtained run `scripts/fit_model.r`. Note that fitting the model may take up to 10 hours on a fast multi-core machine.
